# Write a `flowstate` as a Flow Cytometry Standard file (FCS 3.1)

A `flowstate` – following [Flow Cytometry
Standard](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2892967/) conventions
– is converted to FCS 3.1 and written to disk. The conversion is as
follows:

- `[['keywords']]`, `[['parameters']]`, and `[['spill']]` (if present)
  are converted to character string using a delimiter `"|"` to separate
  keyword-value pairs.

  - this string forms the `TEXT` segment of the FCS file.

- `[['data']]` is written as binary.

  - this forms the `DATA` segment of the FCS file.

- The `HEADER` segment (string) – containing the required offsets – is
  derived from `TEXT` and `DATA`.

The FCS 3.1 compliant file is then written to disk.

*N.B.: During testing, FCS 3.1 files written to disk by write.flowstate
were fully compatible with
[read.flowstate](https://nlaniewski.github.io/flowstate/reference/read.flowstate.md)
and flowCore::read.FCS; issues were only with proprietary software
(i.e., FlowJo). If proprietary software is to be used with FCS 3.1 files
generated by write.flowstate, caution is advised.*

## Usage

``` r
write.flowstate(
  flowstate.object,
  new.fil = NULL,
  add.fil.mod = TRUE,
  file.dir,
  endianness = c("little", "big")
)
```

## Arguments

- flowstate.object:

  A `flowstate`

- new.fil:

  Character string – default `NULL`; if defined, the keyword `'$FIL'`
  will be updated with the provided value.

- add.fil.mod:

  Logical – default `TRUE`; the suffix `'flowstateMOD'`(string) will be
  appended to the value of `'$FIL'`.

- file.dir:

  Character vector – a [base](https://rdrr.io/r/base/file.path.html); a
  file directory for saving the output FCS 3.1 file.

- endianness:

  Character string – default `"little"`; see
  [endian](https://rdrr.io/r/base/readBin.html).

## Value

The FCS 3.1 file is written to disk and a summary message is displayed.
